# info_vis_mimic_survival

The data derived from electronic healthcare records (EHR) has many applications to allow for more effective and efficient service for patients in hospitals (Kelly et al., 2019)1. Our focus has been using the MIMIC-III EHR to inform hospital management and clinicians with the use of both hospital length of stay forecasts, and survival analysis to assess patient risk. The MIMIC-III dataset involves 40,000 patient records from the critical care ward from the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center from 2001 to 2012. Patient demographics, as well as time dependent information such as status of diseases or medical tests will be used to better understand patients in ICU (Intensive Care Unit) wards. These fields will be gathered from the admission, ICD (International Classification of Disease), patient, hospital chart event, and ICU stay tables. Survival analysis models centering on ensemble methods will be used to categorize and order patients on their risk of passing away. Forecasting will also be done to predict when patients are most likely to leave the hospital after their ICU stay. These two models will be used to forecast how the distribution of high and low risk patients can be expected to change over time. These results will be visualized on an overview page that can be used by hospital administrators to better make staffing decisions. On a more granular level, a comparison between patients on their risk can inform which patients should be given more care by clinicians. An application will be used to communicate these forecasts, as well as other information about patients, to non-technical users. The final results of the project will be a locally run application with inputs of the MIMIC-III data, survival analysis results, and length of stay forecast with both the staffing overview and granular patients page.
